what kinds of stories get the most
laughs from an audience
in my experience you might not like the
answer it's self-deprecating stories
it's stories that you tell
putting yourself in a vulnerable
position
and maybe they're even embarrassing
stories but those ones that audiences
have the chance to relate to you on and
they feel bad for you and they cringe on
your behalf
those often get the most laughter and in
this video i'm going to give you a
couple of tips of how you can identify
that story and how you can deliver it
with ease the next time you have a
speech incorporating it into a speech
perhaps and get the most laughter
possible from your audience hey everyone
my name is wade patterson and my youtube
channel is all about impactful
communication if you want to be a better
public speaker please consider
subscribing to my channel i aim to put
out a lot of video content about all
elements of communication and i think
that by subscribing you will get a lot
of benefit out of these videos that i'm
producing so where this video stemmed
from is the fact that i am a
toastmasters member and i've been so for
about seven years now and one of the
elements in toastmasters is a role
called humorist or joke master and
there's other videos on my youtube
channel where i've specifically spoken
about that type of role but i wanted to
make a more general video because not
everyone is part of toastmasters so that
video might not have appealed to them
but our observation that i made after
watching several club members take on
this humorous role which by the way the
whole purpose is to make the club laugh
it's right off the top of the meeting
and it's to get some laughter going get
those positive vibes going at the
beginning of the meeting
but i noticed that many members would
try to use canned materials or jokes
that perhaps they found online
and it would be an awkward couple
minutes many times when they tried to
use this strategy it is very difficult
to tell a joke especially somebody
else's joke in a way that gets a lot of
laughter there's things like comedic
timing there's things like delivery that
not all of us have those natural
abilities so when we try to take that
content and force it on people to laugh
maybe it works maybe you're one of those
people who can tell jokes really well
and you're able to pause at the right
spots but for the majority of us it's
not a way that is easy to get laughter
but on the contrary what i found is that
people who would tell personal stories
had a much higher likelihood of getting
the audience to laugh and engage more
deeply with the speech or the story that
they were telling but what i found even
beyond the personal story piece was that
the stories that involved
self-deprecating humor so the people who
told stories about themselves that put
themselves in a vulnerable position
those got the most laughs possible and
as i mentioned at the very top of the
video i think the biggest reason for
that is that the audience feels for you
they they put themselves in your
position they could see the same thing
happening to themselves but the fact
that you are so brave and you are making
fun of yourself while telling this story
people are they're on the edge they're
waiting to laugh and so this is
something that really engages with those
individuals so how do you tangibly come
up with these types of stories well
there's a few categories you can start
thinking about
of where to find these from the first
thing is what is a story you have told
many times before to your family member
or friends maybe you never thought of it
as being part of a speech it's just a
great story you're around the campfire
you always tell this story
whatever that is consider chopping it up
twisting the format adapting it to
whatever it is that your greater speech
is about
because that is something that when
incorporated properly
when you have a tested story that you
know always gets laughs and you can
adapt it to fit the format of whatever
it is you're going to talk about that is
one really powerful way to get humor
from the audience if there's not a story
like that that comes to mind think about
some of the most embarrassing moments
you've ever had and i realized that if
they're very embarrassing moments maybe
not everything is going to be
appropriate to tell within a speech
depending on who it is that you're
speaking to but often these embarrassing
moments are the perfect example of what
an audience can relate to can resonate
with and if you tell this really well
putting yourself under the bus and the
reason i say yourself is because it
doesn't always work well i've told
people i've heard people tell stories
about other people and sometimes they're
funny depending on the delivery but
sometimes they almost come across as
mean spirited but when you're putting
yourself out there you've got permission
to talk about yourself you're the one
choosing to do so and so the audience
can relax they don't have to worry that
this may be offending somebody else they
know you're okay with telling it and
they know that they have permission to
laugh some of the tips i give with any
humorous speech that you're
incorporating is try to get the audience
to laugh early the earlier you can do
that the more laughter it's going to
cause throughout the speech it's almost
like opening the floodgates the longer
sometimes somebody speaks before getting
any laughter the audience might be
making up their minds that this just
isn't going to be a funny speech this
isn't a funny person and it gets harder
and harder the longer the speech goes to
actually get them to laugh
if you can get your audience to laugh
within the first 20 seconds it's going
to relax them and it's probably going to
cause
ripple effects of laughter throughout
the entire speech
it also does wonders for yourself when
an audience is laughing you know they
are enjoying themselves so by telling a
self-deprecating story but
identifying a couple funny parts early
on not just one long long long build up
to the punch line get them laughing a
couple times early on start that and
then the momentum will carry throughout
the story a final piece of advice again
if you're telling any type of humorous
story
is to have strategic pauses
to get laughter
what i mean by this is there are certain
maybe it's a punchline maybe it's a
certain delivery of something that you
know usually gets laughter especially if
this is a story you've told many times
before
as you're telling that story force
yourself
in those key moments to pause when you
think there's going to be laughter give
it a little bit of a pause and even if
there isn't right away
just take a moment and it's going to be
uncomfortable you're going to want to
keep speaking but sometimes even if the
audience doesn't laugh you just give a
couple of looks and the way your body
language and like raise an eyebrow or
something like that and that alone can
cause the laughter sometimes
if the audience is laughing don't cut
them off allow them to laugh if you say
something very funny and there's a lot
of laughter don't rush to jump into your
next sentence allow that laughter to
fill out because sometimes that will
even cause more laughter and the
audience will enjoy it even more so
allow the audience to laugh and
implement those strategic pauses which
gives them that opportunity to do so i
understand that the idea of telling an
embarrassing or a personal story is not
an easy one for anyone but i hope this
video gives you some ideas perhaps as
i've been talking you've started to
think about some of your own personal
examples and i challenge you next time
even if it's a speech at a wedding or
perhaps it's a report that you're
delivering for your business but you
know that there's an opportunity to
sprinkle in a little bit of creativity
and a funny story if you have a story
that is self-deprecating that is
appropriate within the format just try
it out and see if it works and then
leave me a comment below if you have any
stories like that if you found that
there's a particular speech that has
really worked well for you and you've
incorporated this type of humor i would
love to hear about it i hope this video
brought you a lot of value if it did
please consider subscribing
to my channel i am going to continue to
put out videos to help make you a more
impactful communicator and i'll see you
on the next one